# Spectrion framework

The main purpose of this program is to provide a friendly environment (framework) to Delphi programmers for developing instrument control and data acquisition software system. The general idea of the software is to have some virtual instruments (called devices) manipulated by scrip generated by "procedures" as well as visual presentation (2D or 3D) of the results. The script is the principal mean of communication between "procedures" and the devices, even there are some exceptions (shortcuts) as data-channels for the speed sake.

Spectrion is a complete program by itself, but you have to write the virtual devices within Spectrion specifications to your "external" real devices (e.g. AD/DA board, pulse generator, multimeter, step-motor controller). The extendibility and versatility of the program plus some of your programming skills (even moderate ones) to cope with Delphi will give amazing results. Practically it means that you will spend between couple of hours and couple of days to "plug-in" your devices into the Spectrion and you'll have a complete data acquisition system. Of course to adapt the program to every your requirements you will needs more time, depending of what you want. But even then you will have the strong support provided from the existing "skeleton" of the program.

Spectrion structure is transparent, object oriented and easily extendable. As it is Spectrion is suitable for visualization of mass-specs, some data processing and PCA/MD classification (one-class classifier kind). A separate application PCA detective is designed to create and optimize PCA training sets for classification of mass-spectra in Spectrion. The original aim Spectrion was to be used for data acquisition and instrument control in mass spectrometry (hence the name - SPECTRometry of IONs). Although its main application area is still MS, it can be used for wide variety of data acquisition/automation purposes.

Website with screenshots at http:/sicyon.com/?pg=software/spectrion